---
Title: DAM101 Journal 1
categories: [DAM101, Journal_1 ]
tags: [DAM101]
---

### Topic : Introduction to Neural Network and Deep learning

After attending AI classes I have absorbed some important knowledge on deep learning, a field that computes complex mathematical problems and applies techniques  to solve complex problems to train AI models. I have explored how AI came to be, how it differs from machine learning, and the foundational structure of neural networks.

Neural networks are like our human brain's network of interconnected neurons, which are designed in such a way to mimic how our human  processes their  information. Neural networks are made up of three main parts: the input layer, the hidden layers, and the output layer.

The input layer is the starting point. It's where we feed in our data, which could be anything from pictures, words or numbers. This layer doesn't do much on its own, it's just there to receive the data and send it on to the next part of the network.

The hidden layers are where all the magic happens. These layers take the data from the input layer and do some math calculation with it. They use something called weights, which are like the strength of the connection between neurons, and a bias, which is like an adjustment factor. They then pass this through an activation function, which decides whether a neuron should be activated or not. Out of many activation functions, I have learned two types of activation function namely ‘Relu’ and ‘sigmoid’ function.  This process helps the network learn from the data and solve complex problems.

The output layer is the final step. It takes the processed data from the hidden layers and gives us the final answer. Example like whether it's predicting what kind of animal picture it is  or telling us if an email is spam, the output layer is what we look at to get our result.

It's like when we are playing a game of connect-the-dots with your friends. The input layer is where you start, the hidden layers are where you draw your path, and the output layer is where you find out if we have connected the dots correctly.

Understanding these layers and how they work together is key to understanding how neural networks work. It's like learning the rules of the game so you can play more effectively so that we can predict the next move. And with each game, or each problem the network solves, it gets better at identifying patterns and making predictions.


